# WG back-end, meeting memo
Tue 2.4.2019 10-11:30 EET (UTC+2), Virtual

DRAFT 
## Participants:
Roope Tervo , lead architect, FMI<br>
Petri Vuorio, alert expert, FMI<br>
Ville Karppinen, head of group, FMI<br>
Håvard Futsæter, lead api development, MET<br>
Ivar Seierstad, lead Yr development, incl the data flow, MET <br>
Helen Korsmo, xx, xx<br>
Tomas Karlsson, lead architect, SMHI<br>
Johan Almark, xx, SMHI<br>
Linus Larsson, xx, SMHI<br>

## Agenda
GENERAL<br>
Set-up, introductions: 10 min<br>
ToR: 20 min<br>
Needs of post-processing and archiving groups: 20 min<br>

ALERTS<br>
Current status in every country: 15 min<br>
Starting point for common format: 10 min<br>
Issues in encoding: 15 min<br>
Common interface: 10 min<br>

 Next (face-to-face) meeting: 10 min<br>

## Notes

### General
#### ToR

#### Needs of post-processing and archiving groups


### Alerts

#### Current status in every country


#### Starting point for common format
- core elements and extensions?
- meteoalarm?  good examples? some country?

#### Issues in encoding


#### Common interface
- CAP, WFS, both?

### Next meeting
- type?
- when?



## Decisions

## Next meeting
